#summary Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured

== Overview ==

*What is Mace?*
	Mace is a tool for !MineCraft, which creates a new world with a random city at the spawn point. You can then use the city for exploring, expanding, destruction, creation, modification or whatever you would like.

*When will Mace be finished?*
	My aim with Mace is to randomly generate a complete city, so from that perspective it is done. However, there are many more features that I would like to add. Eventually I'll declare it as finished, then move on to something else.

	Mace is written in C#, but Substrate will work with other languages, such as VB. Substrate provides many examples in the C# language.

*When will the next version of Mace be released?*
	I don't know. The amount of free time I have available is unpredictable, so it is hard for me to estimate when the next version will be done.

*When tools do you use to make Mace?*
	The code is written in [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Visual_Studio Microsoft Visual Studio] 2010 Ultimate. I use the [http://code.google.com/p/substrate-minecraft/ Substrate library], which handles all the complicated world editing and creation. I use two mods to make the city buildings, which are [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/94310-172-single-player-commands-v210-1-new-update/ Single Player Commands] and [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/140684-172-toomanyitems-in-game-invedit-july-1/ TooManyItems]. I use [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/153066-cartograph-g-map-your-beta-17/ Cartograph G] to render the world as an image, which is very useful for debugging. I use [http://code.google.com/ Google Code] for project hosting.

== Installation and Running ==

*How do I install Mace?*
	There is no installer for Mace. Just extract the files anywhere and then run Mace.exe. If you have any problems, you are very welcome to post in the [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/357201-mace-v140-random-city-generator/ Mace topic].

*How do I remove Mace from my computer?*
	Delete the Mace folder. Mace doesn't edit any other areas of your computer, except for the !MineCraft saves folder.

*Does Mace break when a new version of !MineCraft is released?*
	No. Mace is a tool, rather than a mod, so consequently it doesn't need updating with every version of !MineCraft.

	Mace might break if the world format changes. However, this is an extremely rare thing and Notch would most likely provide an automatic converter, so that shouldn't be a problem.

*Does Mace work on Windows 7? Does it work with 64-bit Windows?*
	Mace is written entirely on Windows 7 (64-bit), so it definitely does!

*I am on Linux/OSX, so can't run Mace. What can I do?*
	You could Mono 2.6 Beta 3 (or later) and open the code in that. Then run the project and Mace will appear. I haven't tested this, so can't guarantee that it will work :(

	Alternatively, you could check the downloads page to see if worlds are available for the latest version. If not, you are welcome to post in the [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/357201-mace-v140-random-city-generator/ Mace topic] and I will create some worlds for you.

*Do I need to close !MineCraft whilst using Mace?*
	Mace doesn't interact with !MineCraft, so it's okay if !MineCraft is open or closed.

*Can Mace generate a city in an existing world?*
	This is currently not possible and I don't have any immediate plans to do this. However, it is probably possible to move a generated city into an existing world using a tool like [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/13807-mcedit-minecraft-world-editor-compatible-with-mc-beta-166/ McEdit].

*Can I use a Mace world on my !MineCraft server?*
	Yes. I haven't tried this myself, but several people have reported doing this successfully.

*Can Mace overwrite any of my existing worlds?*
	No, so don't worry! Mace will keep generating random city names until it finds an unused one.

*I feel imbalanced with all this construction. Is there any way to bring some destruction to the city?*
	Yes! Have a look at Commander Keen's tool, called [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/269176-teeth-of-time-ruin-your-world-v03-brawler/ Teeth of Time].
		
== Problems ==

*I spotted a bug. Would you like to know?*
	Yes, please let me know in the [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/357201-mace-v140-random-city-generator/ Mace topic]. It would help me a great deal if you can provide details about the bug, such as the version of Mace you are using, a screenshot, the generated world, and your !MineCraft version. If you can find steps to reproduce the bug, that would help me as well.

*The terrain difference between the city and the natural terrain is very weird! Why is that?*
	Mace creates the city part of the world, then !MineCraft creates the natural terrain around it. The terrain does not match up because it is created by two separate applications. Fixing this is outside the scope of Mace, but I might write a separate tool to fix this in the future.

== Suggestions ==

*I have a suggestion, would you like it?*
	Definitely! It might be something I've already got planned, so have a quick look through the ToDo list to see if it's listed.

*Can you include NPCs in Mace?*
		Mace doesn't interact with !MineCraft, unlike mods, which work from inside !MineCraft. So it is not possible for Mace to include NPCs in !MineCraft. However, the [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/227822-166-millenaire-npc-village-085b-small-fixes/ Millenaire] mod adds NPCs to the game, who will interact with you and build a city. You might like to try that mod instead. Notch has stated that NPCs will be added to the game in the future, so potentially I might be able to add them to the city.

*Is it possible to change the region that the city is in?*
	Unfortunately the region data is decided by !MineCraft at run time, so it is not possible for Mace to change it.

*Is it possible to specify the type of terrain around the city?*
	In the future this might be possible, but I'm not focussing on that at the moment.

*Will Mace be able to make multiple cities in one world?*
	I would like to add this in the future, but it might be too ambitious.

*All Mace cities are square, any plans to change that?*
	There's a lot of code in the generator that relies on the city being square, so that's the best way for it to be right now. 

*When a new feature is added to !MineCraft, will you add it to Mace?*
	If I can find a good use for it, then I definitely will!

== Buildings ==

*Can I change how often a building appears?*
	Yes. Go to the Resources folder, then open buildings.xml. Scroll down and look at the building names. Once you find the building, change the frequency value to "very common", "common", "average", "rare", "very rare" or "exclude". Excluded buildings will not appear on the map.

*Can I modify the buildings that Mace puts in the city?*
	Yes. Open the Resources folder, then copy the Mace folder to your !MineCraft saves folder, which is located at %appdata%\.minecraft\saves

	You can then edit the buildings in !MineCraft. When you are finished, copy the world back to the resources folder.

*Can I add more buildings for Mace to put inside the cities?*
	Yes. Follow the steps in the question above, then create your new building(s) in the resource world.

	Make sure your building faces the same direction as all the other buildings. The total area of your building should be square. It's okay to have a rectangular building, but make sure there's an empty area to make the whole plot a square.

	Once you are done, open up buildings.xml from the Resources folder. It can be opened in any text editor, such as !NotePad.

	Copy one of the existing buildings, from the {{{<building>}}} tag to the {{{</building>}}} tag. Paste this in the line below. Give your building a name that doesn't exist. Change the size to be the amount of blocks on each side (remember that this includes blocks containing torches), then set the source_x and source_y, which can be found by going to the front-right corner of your building and pressing F3. If your building has an underground area, add/edit a source_start_y tag and set the value to be the lowest point of your building. If you don't know, just set this to be 1. Then finally set the frequency from "very common", "common", "average", "rare" or "very rare".

	Save the file. Close !MineCraft. Copy the world back to the Mace resources folder. Then generate a new city!

*All Mace buildings are square, any plans to change that?*
	Currently I don't have any plans to change this. Squares are a lot easier to deal with and rectangular/circular buildings can be created within squares, so I'm happy with the way it works.

*Do Mace buildings have a theme?*
	My inspiration for buildings is anything you would find in a typical medieval or Dungeons & Dragons city. I also include buildings that make sense for !MineCraft, such as a crafting hut.

*Are you going to add more buildings to Mace?*
	Yes, there's several more buildings that I'd like to add.

*Can you add XYZ building?*
	Suggestions for buildings are always welcome. It might already be planned, in which case it'll be on to the ToDo list or the UnreleasedChanges.

*Can I modify the signs that Mace puts on buildings?*
	Yes. In the Resources folder there are lots of text files, which contain the data for signs. You can remove/add/edit the files as you like. Take note of any comments at the top of the file. Please do not use pipe characters "|" in these files. "~" characters are used to force a new line on the sign text. See the gravestone.txt file for examples of that.

*Is there anything underneath the city?*
	Currently there is nothing underneath the city. It is just bedrock, then stone, then grass. This might change in the future. Some buildings have underground areas.

*Can I make my own city emblems?*
	Yes! Please see [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/357201-mace-v150-random-city-generator/page__view__findpost__p__6347117 Ghostdancer's guide].

== Distribution and Modifying ==

*Can I include Mace in my mod/tool compilation or website?*
	Yes. You are very welcome to do this. Mace is released under the GNU GPL license, which has terms [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ roughly similar to this].

*Can I change the code in Mace?*
	Yes. The entire Mace code and all resources can be found on the downloads page. Mace is written in C# and edited in Visual Studio 2010. Other IDEs are available!

*Can I distribute my changes to Mace?*
	Yes. Mace is released under the GNU GPL license, which has terms [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ roughly similar to this]. I'm always interested to see what people do with Mace, so it would be nice if you'd let me know.